Short/Smartphone Video Imaging (SVI) is a rapid, simple, and low-cost technique for capturing information about the colour, texture, and shape of samples. This technique utilises the smartphone's screen to generate gradient colours that illuminate the sample surface, while the smartphone's front-facing camera records short videos for data analysis. The concept of the smartphone video-based measurement was proposed by Prof. Hui Wang in 2018 (Ulster University; now at Queen's University Belfast). The initial version of the application (Camera2Video) was programmed by Dr. Jordan Vincent (Ulster University). From 2018, Dr. Weiran Song (Ulster University; now at Tsinghua University) established the methodologies, developed functionalities, and explored applications for SVI. He expanded SVI into a versatile technique capable of supporting analytical tasks, including qualitative analysis, quantitative analysis, imaging, spectral reconstruction, and multimodal analysis [1–5]. The development of SVI was also supported and assisted by Prof. Zhe Wang (Tsinghua University) and Dr. Yong-Huan Yun (Hainan University). Dr. Weiran Song and Mr. Linhai Li redesigned and enhanced the application to improve its functionality and usability. 
Contact Email: song29057@126.com (Dr. Weiran Song)
References
1. 	Song, W.; Wang, H.; Yun, Y. Smartphone Video Imaging: A Versatile, Low-Cost Technology for Food Authentication. Food Chem. 2025, 462, 140911.
2. 	Song, W.; Wei, X.; Wang, H.; Xu, J.; Tang, X.; Kong, X. Rapid and Low-Cost Detection of Saffron (Crocus Sativus L.) Adulteration Using Smartphone Videos and Spectral Data Fusion Strategy. J. Food Compos. Anal. 2024, 135, 106691.
3. 	Song, W.; Yun, Y.; Wang, H.; Hou, Z.; Wang, Z. Smartphone Detection of Minced Beef Adulteration. Microchem. J. 2021, 164, 106088.
4. 	Song, W.; Song, Z.; Vincent, J.; Wang, H.; Wang, Z. Quantification of Extra Virgin Olive Oil Adulteration Using Smartphone Videos. Talanta 2020, 216, 120920.
5. 	Song, W.; Jiang, N.; Wang, H.; Vincent, J. Use of Smartphone Videos and Pattern Recognition for Food Authentication. Sensors Actuators B Chem. 2020, 304, 127247.

